# Client-Server-Relationships
Demonstration of using MongoDB with Python on behalf of the fictional company Grazioso Salvare.

For a demonstration of functionality, please review the .docx file in this repo which includes a .gif demo.

In this program, the backbone of the functionality is built upon the CRUD.py file. This file utilizes PyMongo to connect to a running MongoDB instance and perform CRUD (create, read, update and delete) functionality. The intention of this file was to be modular and reusable - while some aspects are hardcoded, such as the MongoDB port used, this can be easily adapted to allow for even more modularity through something such as user input. One of the main advantages of creating a module like this is that it can be a piece of code which has had all errors/issues ironed out and can be used over again. The benefit to this module is that only three things need to change to fit into another environment: authentication parameters, port used and queries. Therefore, this module is a great respresentation of reusable code which requires minimal adjustments to implement. 

As this project progressed, the most useful cycle of development was iterative. The CRUD module was built piece by piece and tested that the specific functionality, such as Read, was working properly prior to implementing additional methods. Similarly, the included Jupyter dashboard was developed iteratively. First, the datatable was introduced followed by the map and then the pie chart. While it's a tried and true method, this project demonstrated the importance of developing iteratively and how efficient it can be. The geolocation map was the biggest challenge in this project - by developing this in pieces, I was not worried about breaking other components such as the pie chart based on changes made to the application. Once a component was set in stone and functional, it was only then which the application could be built further.

To conclude, this project was a lot of fun to work on and taught me a lot about Dash Plotly which is a frontend framework as well as MongoDB. As a computer scientist, I've always had the idea that our goal is to make the world more efficient. Through mountains of errors and dependency conflicts, we can create pieces of software which can change a company or an entity even greater. This application would allow the fictional client, Grazioso Salvare, to significantly improve their throughput of selecting candidate training dogs. Computer science has a long history ahead and one which is exciting to be involved in to potentially change the world.
